So let's have a quick look at pulling and running a
Docker container with SQL Server in it.
Here is the Docker Hub,
and I've brought up the Microsoft SQL Server image that's in that hub.
Let's have a quick look at the contents here,
and you can see that it has a few featured tags.
Each tag is a different version image out there.
It has a few examples on how to run the image with
different images used in each example and also how to run
an executable for the container.
It has a few examples here about how you use the
different environment variables.
And then, if we scroll to the bottom,
you can see a list of all of the different images that are out
there that are available for us to pull and run,
and you can see it ranges from 2019,
the latest image, through several versions of SQL Server 2017.
If we go to the top here,
you can see there's an actual example of the pull command,
which conveniently allows us to just cut and paste from it.
So let's click that command, and we've copied it.
Now let's go over to our terminal window.
Now, let's go ahead and paste in that pull command.
And here you can see I have actually previously pulled down the image
to save us the time that it takes to download it.
So that image is in our local repository. If we want
to see the images that are present,
we can run docker image ls. That lists the different Docker
images that are out on this system. Next,
if we want to go ahead and run one of the images,
we can use the docker run command, and there's the docker run
command. And you can see how quickly our image starts.
So now our image is out there, and it's currently running.
If we want to see the running images,
we can use the docker ps command, and you can see there's our image
running, and it was created basically 2 seconds ago.
Now, if we want to connect into our image,
remember,
we're running on the host, and the image is running detached, we
can start Azure Data Studio, and we'll make a connection into
this running SQL Server instance.
So we'll add a connection. And in the Server, we're going to use localhost.
And remember,
we can use this because we mapped 1433, port 1433, from the
localhost to our running container that will pass this
connection in on that port, port 1433.
We'll give it the password that we used when we issued the docker run command.
And here we've done a connection into our running container. And at present,
you can see there is probably not a lot of databases out there.
There are the system databases, but no user databases.
We could restore a database to the system if we wanted to do this,
or we could attach to a volume that had databases on it and then
attach those databases to our container. If we want to go ahead and
query this, we can use File, New Query option,
which will bring up a query window, and we can enter a basic SQL command.
And here we'll run select @@VERSION, and hit the button to
run it, and here you can see the results where we've connected into SQL Server 2019.